Wow.
Great job.
Thank you to the USC band.
This is remarkable.
There’s been a lot of remarkable people up here.
But now you have me.
I was very lucky and discovered my path early on.
As a kid, movies were my escape.
My joy, my refuge.
So naturally, I was devastated when I found out that Hoverboards were not real.
That E.T.
would never be in front of my bicycle.
That all of the heroes I admire were just performers with stunt people.
But I was around 10 years old, when I had this profound realization.
If those things weren’t real, somebody had to create them.
And whoever that someone was, had the greatest job in the world.
And from that point on, all I wanted to do was make movies.
And here’s what I believed the Hollywood dream was.
Seem very simple.
You get accepted to USC.
You get accepted to the school Cinematic Arts.
You make a student film.
It gets turn into major motion picture.
You make Star Wars.
And then you became George Lucas.
It didn’t work out that way.
My first glamorous job was this production assistant.
Where I picked up hundreds of lunch orders.
Wash dozens of cars.
Walk people’s dogs.
Not a joke.
Hundred percent true.
So if your story is similar to mine, and you know what you want to do, great.
That’s fantastic.
If you’re unsure of your next chapter, if you’re still figuring out.
Guess what, that’s also fantastic.
If you only have this degree and a few scraps of an idea, that’s okay.
Brainy Marvel fans in the audience, remember what Tony Stark was able to do in a cave with a box of scraps.
You’ve got time.
You’re on the right path.
But remember, a good story always moves forward and that requires action.
And graduates, success comes from doing.
It comes from trying new things by taking risks.
By leading with ‘YES’, instead of ’NO’.
That’s one of the defining traits of the superheroes in our movies.
Steve Rogers said ‘YES’ to the super soldier serum.
Captain America was born.
Shuri said ‘YES’ to take on a mantle like Panther.
And Wakanda had a new hero.
Peter Quill said ‘YES’ to teaming up with the bunch of idiots.
And then Guardians of Galaxy were formed.
Thanos said YES to collecting all six infinity stones.
Look what he had accomplished.
Incredible.
But sometimes our heroes fail.
Maybe in small ways, or maybe in truly spectacular fashion.
What’s important is that their failure is never the end of their stories.
They get up, they keep going.
I did that right here.
I became a Trojan when I was 18.
Ready to follow in the footsteps of my idols.
Like George Lucas and Robert Zemeckis, Ron Howard and John Singleton.
There was one problem.
I had been accepted to USC, but I had been rejected by the film school.
Now I started taking the required courses And I applied a second time, and I was rejected again.
And luckily, the third time’s the charm.
Except for me, because then I was rejected again.
And then one more time and then another time after that.
And it turned out the sixth time was the charm.
Six times.
My wish for you graduates is that you get comfortable.
With failure, with rejection.
Accept that it’s a possibility, but never let it define you.
And never let it hold you back.
What is important is that you know who you are.
To be successful, you must understand your strengths and your weaknesses whatever they may be.
I notice that the people like to include quotes from famous world leaders in the commencement speeches, So here’s one.
Quote from a member of an ancient royal family that I think exemplifies this perfectly.
“The measure of a person of a hero is how well they succeed at being who they are.” You know who sad that?
Thor’s mom.
Thor’s mom said that in Avenger’s End Game.
I love it.
Because not even superheroes are perfect.
Graduates, whatever lies ahead, enjoy every step on your heroes journey.
Lean into your flaws, make them your strengths.
Embrace failure, persevere, take yourself back up when you fall and keep fighting.
And lead with ‘YES’.
There’s a fun Tony Stark story like to leave you with.
When we were casting a role of Iron man, we looked it so many different actors.
We had to find the perfect mix of heart and strength and charisma.
The success of the film and the future of our entire studio rested on the shoulders of this one person.
And it was not an easy task, But together with my team and our casting directors and our director Jon Favreau.
We culled down our list, we pinpointed the right guy and we extended an offer toward to our top choice.
An actor who checked all those boxes.
And who we were confident would be a huge hit.
And his name, of course, was Clive Owen.
He passed.
He was not interested.
And that is the unwritten rule of life.
Not getting your first choice might just be the greatest thing that can happen to you.
Because you know what’s better than getting your first choice?
Getting the right choice.
And in our case, of course, that was Robert Downey Jr..
And the first movie we ever made as a studio ended up being one of the best reviewed and highest-grossing movies of the year.
Graduates, as you write your next chapters of your story.
Choose to do something good in the world.
Remember the line between a super hero and a super villain is surprisingly thin.
And I think this is where I’m legally obligated to say “With great power comes great responsibility.”
Be a part of the projects you’ll be proud of in 10 years, in 50 years.
Projects you want to share with your grand children.
And always start with ‘YES’.
Even when someone asks you to do something you scare to do.
Something outside of your comfort zone.
Something like delivering a commencement address in front of 50,000 people.
Now, when I’m at Comic-Con in front of crowds of fans we like to leave the audience of one more thing.
And for you today, one more thing is to embrace the power of the catch phrase.
Every superhero has one.
Helps them get through challenging times and celebrate the big moments.
I love you 3000.
Higher, further, faster.
I am groot.
It has a lot of different meanings.
Wakanda forever.
So what will your catch phrase be?
I’ve got a little pitch.
Trojan, graduating class 2023, assemble.
Congratulations.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.